 I hope you're all doing well. For those of you who I haven't had the pleasure of meeting yet, my name is Tina Nuno. I'm with Gartner Research, and it's my pleasure to have the opportunity to be with you here today to talk about how to present AI to the board of directors. If I may ask, how many of you have already done at least one presentation on AI to your board? Excellent. Very experienced audience, which I love. How many of you expect to do your first one soon? How many of you? Quite a few. Welcome to the deep end of the pool. You know, presenting AI to the board, I'm sure for those of you who have already experienced it, you know is a special opportunity and a special challenge. It's a little bit like taking your family to the amusement park, where you want them to be excited, but you have to set proper expectations. We're going to have a great time. The lines are going to be really long, so we're not going to get on all the rides, but we're going to have a great time. We're going to go in the park, we're going to enjoy. Everything in the park is really expensive though, so don't try to buy everything in the park, but we're going to have a great time. Oh, and before the day is done, we're probably all going to be a little bit nauseous, but we're going to have a great time. It'll be totally worth it. You know, AI is a little bit like that for boards nowadays. They are quite excited about it, which is likely why so many of you have been in the boardroom talking about a topic that five years ago would never have been in the boardroom. And these conversations are evolving with tremendous speed. When we look at the conversations that were really launched with the first launch of ChatGPT in late 2022, they all began with, so what is this, Gen AI of which you speak? What is this? When I was brought into boardrooms, that was the key question. Tell me what this is. Early 23, they very quickly went, please talk to us about the risks. Let's have the risk conversation. And then very rapidly, they evolved to show me the money. Right? Show me. Have you had this experience? Right? So, show me the money. Give me the forecast. So, if I put it in amusement park terms for you, it's quite literally like, so what is this ride? It looks a little scary. And woo, whoopee. And CIOs like you have generally been saying, no, no, whoopee. Don't get overly excited. Right? This ride has a cost associated with it, and we need to manage it carefully to make sure that we get as much as we can from AI for the enterprise. So, I'm going to share with you today some of the experiences that I've had in working with boards directly on this topic, in speaking with directors, and also in reviewing many presentations from fine CIOs such as yourselves, who have done an amazing job in delivering a complex topic, to a board who may not have a tremendous amount of technical acumen and doing an amazing job at it. So, I'm going to apply these rules to your AI board presentations. So, rule number one, this is not how we spell board. B-O-R-E-D is not what we're going for. This is not the objective. Right? We don't want them overly excited. We don't want them bored either. We have to find the appropriate level for them to feel comfortable about the oversight. So, this is an acronym that I've been using for a while to talk about how to have great board conversations and great board presentations. Brief, open, accurate, relevant, diplomatic. I'm going to go through each of these relative to how you might present on AI and hopefully give you one or two practical tips you can take home and apply to your own presentations. So, let's start with brief. This is one of my most important board rules. It is more important to be interesting than to be complete. How many of your board packs that you and the executive team prepare are over 100 pages each quarter? How many over 100? Some of you are already laughing. How many over 200? Yeah? Do we go higher? On this year's board of directors survey, we surveyed over 300 non-executive directors and we asked them, what do you think is a reasonable number of pages for you to read prior to a board meeting? The average? 40 pages. So, when they're talking about brevity, they really mean it. And the number one request that board members often give me is they say, we want to be sure that executive teams understand that we want data so we can do proper oversight, but we also want discussion so we can talk about what the direction may be and help apply our expertise. When I talk to CIOs, frequently the number one request they have is how can I have better discussions with my board? This is a delicate balance, but frequently by using some specific tools, we can get there. So, being brief. Very important priority. The degree to which you can figure out exactly what it is they need to know or they want to know, this is time well invested. Boards often are not phenomenal at articulating exactly what it is they want to know. So, I'm going to share with you some of the most common things that they have been talking about and where many of them seem to currently be relative to the questions that they are asking. And these questions, of course, are quite critical. In board oversight, the questions are what they broker in. Having the right questions and the right answers is tremendously helpful to boards. So, asking yourself, have they clearly articulated the question? Can I get some clarification? What do I think they meant rather than what they said? And am I presenting to the full board or to a committee who may have more technical acumen and want more detail? The target can make a huge difference in how we approach that particular presentation. One important way of being brief, a picture can be worth a thousand words. I've used this slide with a number of boards and it created significant conversation. This is a real example from Ikea who worked with an AI vendor who scanned all of their furniture catalogs and then they asked the Gen AI to create new furniture designs. What do you think? Do we like? I can share with you what some of the board reactions were. One board member immediately said, well, that looks like a liability. I see us getting sued and I'm not particularly sure I like those styles. Interestingly, this enabled me to explain to the board that, for example, if you look at the chair in the middle top, notice it has three legs. The AI generator actually had a propensity. It loved three-legged chairs and he kept spitting them out. Now, why would it do that? Think about the pictures it's scanning. Four legs of a chair are extremely difficult to capture in a photograph. So according to the Gen AI, three legs were just perfectly normal and made perfect sense. Even the chair that looks like a bench, the AI could not distinguish between a table and two chairs and a chair. So these are some of the flaws. What's good about it? It's a head start on design. I am not starting from scratch. This is one of the things that Gen AI is remarkably good at. Over and over, I've seen CIOs do this within their own context. Use the AI to generate an example relative to their industry that was a key to their industry that created conversation. Sometimes it was a use case they had done. In other cases, they just wanted to create a conversation with the board rather than explaining in detail, which would have been much less engaging. I also recommend one of my other rules. Don't be afraid to use imperfect analogies. What I refer to as imperfect analogies. Many boards have been asking me, can you tell us the difference between AI and Gen AI? Right? So for those of you who are highly, highly technical, you will recognize this as an imperfect analogy. But the way that I've been explaining it is AI triangulates, Gen AI extrapolates. It says, well, if I have this information, I can create something new, such as a person. It's one of my favorites, the early example of someone saying, hey, what would it look like if we put the Pope in a Balenciaga puffy jacket? And of course, happily, Chachi PT generated an image of the Pope in the Pope mobile in a $4,000 Balenciaga puffy jacket. And it went viral with people saying, look how stylish the Pope is. They have no idea the Pope like Balenciaga. And so it will extrapolate things that simply haven't existed before, which is a wonderful possible tool. Interestingly, AI is currently being used to actually detect deep fakes. So one type of AI is being used to help manage the second type of AI. Why do boards need to know this? So they can understand from an oversight perspective, what questions they need to ask you. So if you're doing AI versus Gen AI, I as a board member should have significantly different questions for you about how you're controlling it and how you're overseeing it. So even though these analogies are imperfect, it can help us get to the strategic conversation that both you and the board want to have. So choose analogies that make sense for you, not for anyone else. Boards also love frameworks. They love frameworks. When I surveyed board members, I said, what's additional? We're not in all of the details of the business. And guess what? Sometimes we don't remember what happened from one board meeting to the next. So we actually like reminders. We like frameworks we can go back to consistently so that we know how things are progressing and moving. The hype cycle, which many of you may be familiar with, tells you how mature technology is. So I've seen many CIOs who have used models such as this to say, hey, we are kind of at the peak of inflated expectations and moving into the trough. Let's talk about what that means relative to how we want to invest. One CIO who I worked with was very clear with her board. We are going to be fast movers. So we know it's risky, but we think we're ready. That was her key message to the board. Right? There's risk here, but we are ready and it's consistent with our competitive stance. In another board meeting that I was in, when I presented this to the board, the CEO looked at the board and said, respectfully, so when we tell you we need to slow down, this would be why. Right? And the board nodded. Said, okay, we understand. Let's see how all of this progresses. This also gives you the ability to return to it over and over and over again, so that you can update the board on progress and how things have changed in the environment. Because one key thing we want to avoid with the board is we don't want to spend a ton of time explaining what you're presenting to them. We want to spend as much time discussing it. So any familiar frameworks and models that you use can be extremely helpful in creating a framework for conversation. Let's talk about openness. Board rule. Be clear about how aggressive your AI strategy is or not and why. This is one of these interesting, remarkable spaces. As we talked about five years ago, technology in general had very little time on any board agenda. And now, almost every non-executive director I speak with is saying, Tina, my dominant question is, are we moving fast enough relative to AI? Are we being aggressive enough? So they literally have moved from, do we really have to talk about technology? to, are we moving fast enough? It's really rather extraordinary. So importantly, they want to know, how do you compare to your competitors? Where are we in the competitive space? This framework, some of you may be familiar with, or other similar models. This is one way of communicating. How aggressive is our strategy? Do you, as the CIO, recommend primarily productivity plays? We think AI can help us with productivity, internal processes and opportunities? Or are you recommending more game-changing AI? That we should be significantly more aggressive, try to change the industry, or really lead the industry? Where do you want to play? It's also an opportunity to show your vision and leadership to the organization. As many CIOs have been doing a spectacular job, this is an example of how you might plot use cases. Multiple CIOs who I've worked with have said, we spent an entire year doing use cases. Some of them were phenomenal. We see a lot of business potential. However, in some cases, we're not getting a lot. They're not advancing our strategy. They're interesting, they're engaging, but they're not really hitting the target of where the CEO and the board feel the business needs to go. So in those cases, the CIO has stepped in and said, here's where we think the strategy should go, very clearly. Here's where we've been inclusive and actually included many players from around the organization who were enthusiastic about AI. But based on this, here's the leadership strategy we recommend. And it's been remarkably positive with boards because they want to have confidence in you that you're owning the vision. But of course, that you're being inclusive about it and looking for every opportunity in the organization. And from what I've seen, you're all stepping up and doing a wonderful job with this. Accuracy, another board rule. Set AI expectations by focusing on readiness and risks. This is the amusement park equivalent of like, you have to be this tall to ride. Okay, that's the equivalent here. We need to be this tall to ride. Otherwise, AI is not necessarily going to be something we can heavily invest in. So boards are very interested, of course, in risk. It's one of their dominant agenda items. What are the risks? How ready are we to take advantage of AI? What are the obstacles for us as an organization? This, of course, is that tough dose of reality that is so critical to build into our strategies and our forecasts and our roadmaps. So how do we do that? First, we set expectations by being really clear about what is our technology starting point. In particular, what is your organizational history relative to incorporating and experimenting with emerging technologies? Because, of course, that's where we are with much of AI. It's an emerging technology. So what is the organizational track record? I've spoke with some CIOs who have said, we've historically been very aggressive. We have spent so that we can be ahead of the market. We are the leaders. On the other hand, there are many CIOs who have said, we've historically underinvested in IT. We have historically not invested in emerging technologies, which means your pace of adoption is likely to be different. And it's important frequently to set the board's expectations that just because AI is the topic of the day and it's highly accessible in many ways, it doesn't mean that all organizations are starting from the same starting point. Boards do tend to like maturity models, particularly as you move through the maturity model. Again, it's a wonderful type of model that you can return to over and over and say, here's where we are today. Here's where we came from, very importantly. And here's what we believe the timeline will be for us to continue to deliver value. We also need to be quite realistic about our enterprise's ability to hire, train, or source AI skills. This has become a particularly sticky area because one of the things that we've often seen is the minute a skill is hot, it suddenly starts appearing on everyone's resumes. Have you noticed this? Some of you are nodding. You're like, from one day to the next, you're like, AI was like on nobody's resumes. It was a really scarce skill. Now suddenly it's everywhere. Everywhere. So you have to ask yourself, am I really buying this? Right? Do I believe this? Seriously, how much skill do we actually have? But while there are skills certainly out in the market, they're not available to everyone. Boards, interestingly enough, have become increasingly interested in workforce priorities. Prior to the pandemic, the average involvement of a board in workforce was the compensation committee, who was primarily focused on the compensation for the executives. That was the primary purview of most boards. Interestingly, we've seen an interesting evolution of boards where due to the pandemic, they're interested in remote and hybrid work. They've become much more involved in the workforce of the future. So that compensation committee, even in title and in deed, has actually been expanding to delve much more deeply into what is our enterprise workforce strategy and what should it be going forward. So many CIOs are finding they need to be quite clear about here's our ability to recruit, to upskill, or to source AI skills, because this will inform our strategy. And then how will you implement? In the keynote, we spoke a bit about steady and advanced. How will you implement? Where will you be relative to the tech sandwich? That framework, this type of framework often can create a significant amount of discussion. Are we going to absorb what's coming into us from the environment from vendors? Or are we going to attempt to build? Where should we be? Many global enterprises, of course, are doing heavy builds. But if you're in an industry, which is less likely, if you're utilities, if you're some government entities, you may not want to do that. You may want to absorb what's coming at you and do a little bit of bring your own IT. But what does the board want to know? Where will you be on the spectrum? And why? Why does this make sense for us? Almost every time I've presented a slide like this to a board, the CIO has chimed in in a really constructive way and said, here's exactly where we're going to be. And why? It makes sense for us. And then they track it over time. Relevant. Always present through the lens of shareholder value. This is one of my most important rules. The board's responsibility is shareholder value, period. In the United States, there have even been lawsuits which have reinforced that reality, that boards are there to protect shareholder value. And as a result, there's a limited number of things that boards actually care about. And here's what they are. Boards only care about three things. And if you present AI or any other topic for that matter, through the lens of these three things, it's really difficult to be wrong. You know what the things are. Revenue. Make more money today than we had yesterday. If you're a government entity, this may be substituted with mission and mission enhancement. Cost. Are we saving money where we need to save money so that we can reinvest in the rest of the business? And risk. Are we secure? Are we compliant? Is the brand protected? And are we being innovative enough, which is a form of good risk? Again, if you present through the lens of revenue, cost, and risk, really difficult to be wrong. So what I encourage you to do is really think about, in each of these categories, what are the questions the board's going to ask you? Most of the questions that boards are asking now are focused on, when will we get value? When will it happen? How much? So please give me the numbers. Please tell me when you anticipate it is going to happen. Boards are trained to focus very heavily on three key financial statements. Many board meetings are focused a tremendous amount of time on these three key financial statements. The income statement, cash flow, and the balance sheet. One of my strongest recommendations for you is when you are talking about potential benefits, whenever you can, connect the dots, draw a straight line between what you are talking about and where it is going to hit one of these financial statements. Boards find that incredibly helpful. In fact, for many boards, when you're speaking with them, their mind is literally saying, okay, which financial statement is this relevant to? Where am I going to put this? Which box does this go in? Because they're tracking that. And they want to know where you fit. If we're not clear about which financial statement you're about to impact, you may be interesting and important to the board, but not as engaging. So the more you can connect the dots, the more effective they will find your communications. And diplomatic. Diplomacy, of course, is always incredibly important with the board and with your peers on the executive team. Expect your boards to rapidly evolve both their AI governance and their usage. One of the best ways I can think of to encourage you to think about this is set their expectations and then get ready to reset them and reset them and reset them. Since, as you know, this technology is extremely volatile. The technology is rapidly emerging. The risks are rapidly evolving. The costs are extremely unstable. So until they settle down, it's about set the expectations, get ready to reset. There's also an interesting dynamic going on with boards relative to how they oversee AI. I'm doing a session tomorrow on our board survey results, and I'll be talking about how boards rated their confidence level relative to AI oversight. But boards definitely believe certain things have to change structurally in order for them to be able to effectively oversee AI. Why is that? Most of them are not digital natives. They're not hugely familiar with a technology and a set of technologies they believe will add a lot of value. And then a very sensitive question, how should the board use AI? So first, the question of being diplomatic relative to controls. As you know, boards brokering controls, one of their key questions, do we have the proper controls in place, whether it's governance, committees, or tools, to ensure that the organization is in fact protected? What boards pay close attention to is the level of nuance in your answer. So are we talking about an all-or-nothing approach relative to AI? Or do you have more of a portfolio approach to risk that is defensible, that's either based on something like a NIST model or some other framework that you've created which applies to your organization? But that's what they're looking for, is what's the level of nuance in your risk approach so that you have a portfolio of risk that helps optimize value while optimizing risk at the same time? Anything at one extreme or the other tends to make them a little bit nervous. You are also highly likely to be asked to participate in new board structures. 17% of boards surveyed indicated that within the next two years, they intend to create technology-related committees, whether they're artificial intelligence, cyber risk, or technology generally. And this will change the board dynamic. They intend to recruit more tech-savvy board members. That could be you. For many of you, I think this is a wonderful opportunity for you to both experience and change the board dynamic from within. I speak with many CIOs who are interested in becoming non-executive directors, which I think is an incredibly worthwhile pursuit for so many of you. And boards are very open to it at this moment in time. A couple other elements of being diplomatic. Boards are engaging in using AI in the board itself, in the boardroom. And it's eliciting some interesting responses for which we don't have all the answers yet. Are some of your boards using AI for note-taking, for note-taking during the board meeting? Just a few of you, a couple, a couple. We are seeing more and more boards request this. Primarily, I would say, in the not-for-profit space. In some private companies and public company, usually the legal team is shutting it down right away. Saying, no, we're not, no. No. That's not going to happen. So you don't even have to do it yourself. Like, legal would be like, no. No. Okay. But that request certainly is not going away. Any of your boards using AI to summarize the board packs? Anyone using them to summarize? A couple of you. This is one of those things that boards have been talking about. And one CEO who I was with said, no. No. We've carefully crafted that. They are not summarizing it. But notice the gap. 300 pages versus 40 pages that they think is reasonable to read. One way or another, they're going to get there. Right? One way or another. And some interesting innovation with having AI as a non-voting board member. Some very high-profile cases of bringing in AI chatbots as non-voting board members. I had to include this comment that I've heard from quite a few board members who have said, I am so glad I'm retiring before this AI becomes a thing. I'm just so relieved. The reason why I include this is just to recognize that many of your boards are under stress. And it can be important to have empathy for them. That as they race to become educated about AI and as they've actually done a remarkable job of raising their technical acumen, they are genuinely stressed about it. And so having empathy for them will frequently bring more empathy for you as you bring them through this journey. So I hope some of these board rules will help you to fine-tune your presentations and give you the opportunity to find a really great balance in talking about AI as an opportunity, as a threat, when appropriate, having the opportunity to talk about data and discussion at the same time. But I believe if you are brief, open, accurate, relevant, and diplomatic, neither you or your board will ever be bored. Thank you very much for attending today. It's really my pleasure. Thank you so much. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you.